>> We have all heard of
the myths and legends
of our history, but is
there another story?
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In my opinion, we had
several visits of the ETs.
The first visit is
an unknown time--
might be one
million of years ago
or two millions of
years in the past.
Really, nobody knows.
But then again, in
prehistoric time,
which means roughly
6,000 to 7,000 BC,
we have been visited
again, because we
find traces of these
visitors, which
we can date back to that time.
And another, a third visit,
was roughly in Biblical times--
that means 2,500 BC,
something like this.
2000 BC-- Biblical time
and Egyptian time, and so.
So we have been
visited at least three
time, if not even four times.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In Egypt, we have a
very, very old culture.
Egypt starts roughly 3,000 BC.
Now, in ancient Egypt,
there was a historian.
His name was
Manetho, and Manetho
gives a list of the
earliest gods, which
descended from the sky.
And he even gives
dating, and these datings
go back at least 4,000
BC, if not earlier.
And you find traces
of these gods.
For example, on the Nile is a
place, a temple called Abydos.
Now, we know Abydos was
constructed by the pharaoh
with the name of Seti--
Seti the First, which
was roughly 1,300 BC.
But the temple of Seti is
constructed on an older temple,
and the technology
of the older temple
is much more-- at once
it's much more fantastic
than the later of Seti.
You see, normally, humans learn.
They learn softly
how to move stones--
small stones, larger stones,
how to cut stones, et cetera.
So the evolution of technology
starts with small blocks.
Later in evolution, you
learn how to move big blocks.
Now, in the temple
of Seti the First,
you clearly can prove
it's the opposite.
The highest technology with
the biggest blocks of all
are the lowest
one in the ground.
And later on, Sethos,
1300 BC, he constructed
with small stones his temple
on the already existing
gigantic stones from
prehistoric time.
There are more examples
of this worldwide.
For example, in
South America, we
have a place called
Machu Picchu.
Everyone knows Machu Picchu.
Machu Picchu is a
gigantic tourist place.
And Machu Picchu is called
in archeology the lost city
of the Incas or the
secret city of the Incas.
And we know for sure when the
Spanish conquerors arrived
there, the Incas went
back to Manchu Picchu,
because the Spaniards
could not find the city.
It was hidden somewhere
in the jungle.
But when you see Manchu
Picchu, again, you
can differentiate two cultures.
There is a prehistoric
culture, which
is much bigger, more
gigantic than the later ones
of the Inca.
We know how the Inca work.
We know their stones,
how they cut it, exactly.
But the older civilization
is the most fantastic one,
and we have no dates
who made this one.
There are more examples
in this direction.
For example, Cusco.
Cusco is a city in Peru, and
Cusco is known to tourists,
and all the tourists are
shown the wall of Cusco.
It's called the
wall of Saksaywaman.
It's an Inca wall.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
But as soon as you turn
your back to the Inca wall,
and you just move a few hundred
meters, you scrape into rocks.
And you see all these rocks are
cut artificially, absolutely
precise.
You stand before
gigantic blocks,
which are standing upside down.
For example, you
have staircases;
stairs and the block
is on the head.
So the staircases are coming
down from the ceiling.
It was a technology--
prehistoric technology, which
definitely came from the gods.
How can we prove this?
Soon as you go back
in prehistoric time,
the technology of our
forefathers was more primitive.
They were not able to move
the blocks, to cut the blocks,
to polish the blocks,
to transport the blocks,
so there must have been
a higher technology
before our humans began
with their technology,
and this you can
prove by pictures.
You see, in the
highlands of Bolivia
and in the highlands
of Peru, we definitely
show blocks which have
a weight of 800 tons.
There is no way to
transport such a block,
not even in the
highlands, because you
are 4,000 meters high.
There is no wood
for wooden rollers.
You cannot do it in
any possible way.
There were no ropes, but
the blocks definitely
were transported.
Imagine-- 800 tons!
So with what technology?
We today, we would not
move 800 tons in one block.
When in the Bible there were
so many descriptions and so
many visits--
I mean, Moses is one
of the eyewitnesses.
He was talking
together with his God,
and this God was an
extraterrestrial,
because he was not human.
You see, in the
whole Bible, Moses
asks his God different times
if he could see his face.
Moses wants to see the face of
the Lord, and the Lord said,
you can never see my face.
Those humans who see
my face will die.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
The same thing you have in
the "Epic of Gilgamesh."
Gilgamesh is from
the Sumerian part.
There again,
Gilgamesh asks to see
the face of God who
descended from the sky,
and the same answer--
humans who see the
face of God will
die, because they have
different bacteria,
they have different
viruses than we.
Soon as you shake hands--
and they look different.
If you touch them, you die.
It makes no sense.
Then we have to find
a definition of God.
Personally, I'm a
deep believer in God.
I never lost my God.
I still pray every
evening to God.
But for me, God is the universe.
God is the waves
of the universe.
God is everything.
I cannot imagine a God which
uses a vehicle to move around
from point A to point B. God
is all over at the same time,
and my God is out of time.
He does not need
to make experiences
and then he has to wait what
the result of the experience is.
He knows the answer at once.
Of course, God
makes no mistakes.
In the Bible, for example,
in the first Book of Moses,
after the creation
of Adam and Eve,
God said, "and God
saw it was good."
Later on, it was
not good anymore,
and he decided to destroy whole
humanity by the great flood.
So God is not a being
who makes mistakes.
And these extraterrestrials,
they made mistakes.
God is not a being who
needs a vehicle with fire,
smoke, trembling loud noises.
But the God of the
Bible, he used a vehicle.
He moved around with
smoke, fire, trembling,
loud noises, et cetera,
described many times by Moses,
but especially we had that
before by the prophet Ezekiel.
He describes the wheels,
the wings, the legs,
even the noise which the vehicle
makes when he comes down.
He even describes the
sand who blows up.
That means it was a
practical vehicle.
But God-- the real, omnipotent
God, the spirit of the universe
does not need these things who
makes noise, sand is blown up,
et cetera.
Why did these
extraterrestrials arrive here?
It's a long, long, long story.
I think the main reason was
to spread out intelligence.
You see, somewhere in the
universe, it had to start.
Now, we say somewhere the
first intelligent form of life
started.
Now we ask, how?
How did it start there?
We have no answer.
Just take a compass
and make a circle--
a perfect circle.
And then I give the circle
to you, to the audience,
and I ask you, where
did the circle start?
Your logic says,
well, Mr. von Daniken,
must have a starting
point of the circle,
but you cannot
answer the question,
because the circle
itself is closed.
So we have no answer for where
did it start and when in time.
We just know somewhere
it must have started.
The first intelligent
form of life
had an interest to spread
out their own form of life
in a certain part
of the Milky Way.
By doing this, you do
not need space ships,
not in the beginning.
You simply infect a
section of the Milky Way
with your own form of life.
Our body contains billions and
trillions and trillions of DNA.
Just shake your hand, and a
few of the skin goes away,
and in the skin you have DNA.
So you infect a section of
your Milky Way with DNA.
And you know, of course,
that this DNA is--
say that the source
of life, it will
fall into the suns
because of the gravity.
It will fall into big
planets, but part of it
will fall, because
of the gravity,
to planets which are
similar than the one who
started all this.
We on Earth, we always
believed that the Earth
has a unique situation.
We are unique in the universe.
Our planet Earth is not
too close to the sun,
so it's not too hot.
It's not too far away.
It's not too cold.
We have water.
So the situation of
our planet is unique.
In the meantime, we
learned that this is wrong.
At least at the moment
I'm talking here,
we've found more than 4,000
so-called exoplanets, planets
out of our solar system, and a
percentage of it is Earth-like.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
A few months ago, NASA
said, in the meantime,
we have to calculate
only in our Milky Way--
not in the whole universe,
with about 4.5 billion
of Earth-like planets.
So they spread out their DNA.
Part of it will land
on a similar planet
than the one who started with
it, and now evolution starts.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Evolution did not
start on this planet.
When I was a student, I
learned in Switzerland
that it all started on Earth.
The atoms came together
and formed molecules,
and the molecules formed
together bigger molecules,
and so on.
In the meantime, modern
science says, no.
The starting point
came from outside.
Evolution, yes, on this planet,
but the information of life
has came from outside.
And this, again, is mentioned
in many of the old holy books,
including our Bible.
And the gods created humans
according to their own image.
I say the gods--
every critic will say in
the Bible is only one god,
and God made humans
after his own image.
It's not true.
Soon as you read
Hebrew, you know
that the word in old
Hebrew for God is Elohim.
Now, Elohim is a plural.
It does not exist
in the singular.
The correct translations
of the "and the gods
created humans according
their own image--"
as soon as you see
this way, you realize
we are the offspring of them.
Now, I have been asked why have
these extraterrestrials arrived
here?
They knew, of course,
exactly on which planets
their seed was growing.
They came here not
by coincidence.
They have their astronomy.
They know there are solar
systems which planets are
similar than our own planet.
It was not coincidence.
You see, then they came here.
They realized, as expected,
there was many forms of life,
and among them was the most
advanced form of life--
our forefather.
They simply took one copy, one
exemplary of it and one cell--
that's enough.
You change the DNA in the
cell, then this changed DNA,
you put into a liquid of
[? nutrition. ?] The cell will
multiply, will grow.
You put this in the womb of
a female of the same species.
The female will give
birth to a child.
The child has, of course,
the evolution of the family.
So all the skeleton,
all this is perfect.
We belong to the family.
But because of this
artificial mutation,
this child has some qualities
which the rest of the family
tree has none.
Soon as you want to have
a new population out
of the same tree, you
need at least two--
female and male,
and then you'll land
in the story of Adam and Eve.
The gods created humans
according their own image.
The proof is in us.
We are composed of
trillions of DNA,
and that the proof is in us.
Our genetics-- we'll find out
sooner or later that we humans,
we are not only the
product of evolution.
Somewhere, at sometime, somebody
made an artificial mutation.
So the proof is in us.
You have ruins, temples,
gigantic blocks which
the humans at their
time-- prehistoric time--
could not have moved
and chiseled, et cetera.
That's one thing.
You have the holy writings,
and our writings clearly
speak a language of
the extraterrestrials,
because these extraterrestrials
were teachers.
For example, they teach them
in astronomy, in mathematics.
So this is not natural.
Somebody was a teacher.
And then we are the
offspring of them.
We have the same feeling.
We have the same genes.
It's in us.
Critics often say to me,
but Erich von Daniken,
you say these extraterrestrials,
they look similar to us.
You say they even
think similar to us.
This is ridiculous.
Billions of different forms of
life exist, and not like us.
The question is wrong.
The extraterrestrials are not
by coincidence similar to us,
but we are similar to them
because we are the product
of it, which is not the same.
That's why I was never afraid
of the extraterrestrials who
return in these days.
Puma Punku lies in today's
Bolivia, 4,000 meters high.
And there we find the
remains of some buildings
which nobody can understand,
because they were gigantic--
prehistoric time.
And for me, it was
something like a base camp
which the extraterrestrials
made in their own protection
for their machinery, for
their technologies, et cetera.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
In my opinion it was humans
who transported the blocks.
But the knowledge behind it,
the planning, the engineering
planning comes from the ETs,
because the humans were not
able for this
engineering and planning.
So we could prove
this, and it is all
orientated astronomically.
The world is full with
temples of pyramids,
and they are all
orientated astronomically.
We were talking in
an earlier series
about this strange
geometrical grid in Greece.
Now, every old Greek city--
and I mean old, dating
from prehistoric time--
all of them are [INAUDIBLE]
or Pythagoras or Plato.
It means more than 500 BC.
Every of these old places
are linked together
in the geometrical way,
always in the same distance
and in the same angles.
You can definitely
prove this today.
We have the possibility
to measure these things,
to measure the exact
angles and the distances.
Now, it definitely does not
date from prehistoric people.
They had no idea
of high geometry,
of Pythagorean triangle
and of all these things,
so we have to prove in
nature we can find it.
Again, in French Brittany,
10,000 of big stones
called menhirs standing in line,
but not in line by coincidence.
Again, these line form
Pythagorean triangle.
Always the same distance--
2,860 meters in one line,
or exactly the half of it.
All these things
are not coincidence,
and they all come
from prehistoric time.
So if it was not our prehistoric
forefathers, who else?
Who had the knowledge?
The same thing you find in
Australia, in the Kimberley
ranges made by the Aborigines.
They all represent that their
gods, the descending gods,
in a similar way--
always with helmets or rays
coming out of their helmets.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
This phenomenon is worldwide,
and you can easy prove it.
Here in the United
States in Arizona,
we had the tribe
of the Hopi Indian.
But before the Hopi Indian
made their Kachina dolls,
they made cave paintings
and scratches on the wall.
There are thousands of
them, and many of them
show, again, the gods
with helmets, halos.
Some of these gods are
called the star blowers.
They knew that these beings
were coming down from the stars.
So you find this
in every continent.
Some 10,000 years ago,
our prehistoric ancestors
had no contact together.
No one from the Sahara--
today's Sahara Desert,
today's Algeria--
there is a gigantic drawing
six meters high of one
of these gods, and
if you look at it,
it looks really
like an astronaut
in a complicated suit in there.
He's covered
completely his body,
with his suit protecting against
our air and our bacteria.
Now, no one in prehistoric
time from the Sahara
went to Australia, or from
Peru Nazca went to Valcamonica,
at the border of Switzerland.
So they all had the same
idea, because they all
saw the same thing--
the big beings coming
down there with helmets,
halos, rings around their
head, around their body.
Now in Japan-- and
Japan is far away--
they made in prehistoric times
figures they call the dogus.
Now, you can put the dogus
together with the Kachinas,
but they had no contact.
You've found them
in South America
or in Central America, for
example, in Villahermosa.
Villahermosa is in
Mexico, and there you
find the park called
the Olmec Park.
Again, you find gigantic
beings with helmets--
really big structures, some
weighing three of four tons.
This phenomenon is worldwide.
I was in the Museum
of Guatemala City.
There again, you find the
gods with their helmets.
It repeats all the time.
And they had some
something on their nose,
like a filter to filter the air.
The phenomenon is worldwide.
There are in old Indian texts
descriptions of the ETs.
One of the humans asked these
ETs, where do you come from?
And he always
pointed to the sky.
In different questions,
where do you come from?
They always pointed to the sky.
None of them said, for example,
we came from another continent
or we are visitors
from Atlantis.
That was never the answer.
Now, what race they had,
what color they had--
we don't know.
There was no colored
photograph at that time.
At least we have none of
them, so you cannot answer
the question what did different
races and types and colors
of skin come from?
I have no answer, either.
Maybe in the mother
spaceship there
were already different
races, and different races
visited the Earth.
The answer-- the future has
to bring out the answer.
The genetics will
bring the solutions.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
We all are grown
up in a religion.
Now, most of us--
the Christian, the
Jewish society,
or the Muslim society--
has the same back.
You see, for the Muslim society
and the Jewish society, Moses,
Salomon--
all these figures
exist, and this is
all part of extraterrestrials.
The God in the
ancient testament--
the God which talked to
Moses was not a god--
was not an omnipotent,
timeless, spiritual being.
It had a body.
It used engines,
machinery, et cetera.
So all the religions
of today, they're
based on a misunderstanding;
on an error.
In the Bible we find
the King Solomon.
King Solomon had
flying machines.
These flying machines
were clearly and in detail
described in a large book
called "Kebra Nagast."
"Kebra Nagast" is the holy
book of the Ethiopian kings,
and there they say that
King Solomon had several
of these flying machines.
He was visiting the Queen of
Sheba all the time by air.
So our today's religion,
we adore Solomon.
We said Salomon is wise because
the Lord gave him his wiseness.
In reality, it was technology.
So today's religion's based
on a misunderstanding.
We have words in our
today's religion of angels.
The angels descend from the sky.
And the normal people think
angel is a wonderful being.
Angel is a messenger.
Angel is helpful.
We represent angels, again,
like in the cave paintings
with helmets, halos,
and, of course, wings.
But these angels
had sex with humans.
If angels would have
been spiritual beings,
they would never
have sex with humans.
These angels described
by the prophet of Enoch
have had a mutiny on
board of their spaceship.
They were against the
highest, because they
want to have sex with humans.
Or you just read the second
book of the kings of the Bible.
There you see that
an angel coming down
from the sky destroyed--
killed 185,000 Assyrians, just
like this.
There was no fight man
against man, spear or arrows--
nothing of fighting machines.
An angel from heaven comes down
and destroys 185,000 Assyrians,
just like this.
And this is written
in the Bible.
Read the second
book of the kings.
Now in Egypt, again, we
have a temple in Edfu.
Edfu has a temple wall with
wonderful inscriptions.
And there again, you
read the same story,
which we find in the second
book of the kings in the Bible.
Just that in Edfu it said
the pharaoh who was living
there was attacked
by some enemies,
because they don't want
to give him money anymore.
But he had a friend--
a friend in heaven.
His name was Hor-Hut,
a winged disc.
So he asked Hor-Hut
for help, and Hor-Hut
came down with his
flying machines,
with his winged
disks, and killed
all the enemies of the pharaoh.
And in the Edfu inscription
it says they did not hear him
or saw him, he was so fast.
Hor-Hut arrived with a speed
so high they could not see him.
They did not hear him,
but he killed them
all, which mean he must have
had over the speed of sound.
It's technology.
It's not just dreams or wishes.
We have an international
organization
who deals with my
subject of research,
and every society has a logo.
So this thing is the
logo of our society,
and what does it come from?
In South America is
a country, Colombia.
And in Colombia--
the Tierradentro.
Tierradentro means caves.
Inside the Earth there
were tombs found,
and one of these tombs obviously
belonged to a very rich Indian,
because he had
different pieces of gold
in there, colored
feathers, and so on.
And he wore this object around
his neck, and it was pure gold.
Now, archaeologists
suggest that well, it
must be a sort of insect.
I cannot agree this.
I mean, it must have
been very important
for the rich chief of tribe,
otherwise he would not wear it
around his neck in gold.
So it's something different.
He worshipped it.
That's why we used it as
the logo of our society.
By the way, this thing has been
reconstructed in a bigger form,
and it definitely flies.
It has absolutely the
aerodynamical conditions.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Humans always copied what
they saw from the gods.
In our time--
I mean in the Second World
War, American soldiers
were fighting in the
Pacific Ocean against Japan.
And they visited
several little islands,
and the natives had
never seen aircrafts.
The Americans landed
with propellant aircraft,
and they give gifts to
the natives-- for example,
a piece of chocolate,
or whatever.
And the natives, later when
the Americans disappeared,
they started to
copy the aircraft,
although they did not
know what this is.
They had no idea that in
the aircraft is an engine.
They did not know what
the propellant is for.
They simply-- what they
saw with their eyes,
they copied in wood and straw.
We call this cargo
cult. Cargo cults
are always imitating cults.
So natives see something--
we have examples
they saw watches.
Now, they copied watches
made out of wood and straw.
Or they saw radio antennas.
They copied antennas
made out of wood--
of course, with no result.
But they simply imitated
what they saw.
So I suggest with this
object we have here,
it's cargo cult. Someone
saw a flying object.
It was very, very
important to him.
It belonged to the god,
so he made a copy of it.
And that's why the rich
chief of the Indian tribe
carried around his neck.
We have to learn that there
is one God of the universe,
and this God of the universe
is timeless; is fantastic.
We cannot even describe the
real God of the universe.
And then we have
to differentiate
between so-called gods
which are not God.
So with every respect
we should pray
and praise the real,
omnipotent God,
which is a wave
spirituality, et cetera.
And we should learn
the gods in antiquity;
the gods in mythology;
the gods in the holy books
were extraterrestrials.
I'm Erich von Daniken.
Join me next time on
Beyond the Legends.